# Mitigating-Video-Game-Crunch-Culture-Mental-Health-Issues-using-Algorithms-Cloud-Technologies
Technology is quickly innovating and advancing creating a domino effect; an effect which pushes the boundaries of innovation, what can be done without considering what can’t be done, this is a problem. The production begins with employees and a vision. Video game development is a skilled labour work, years of programming and experience is required to push blockbuster AAA calibre games. As technology improves, game engines are also required to be improved, to push the expectations to the highest levels, bettering what was done before. However, developers have to face a famous culture called crunch. A season where developers will be needed to work long extended hours and days including weekends to ensure that all requirements are implemented and tested. This is exhausting, but what really transpires such cultures? This paper will investigate the causes of crunch, the mental implications which it causes on employees, which category of crunch is best suited or if they are all immoral. Crunch sucks the inspiration and motivation of developers, therefore creating a healthier lifestyle in the workplace is the best approach to ensuring that employees are mentally stable and do not burn out too quickly during the development cycle. This can be done by providing them an automated holiday booking system, which will allow them to take holidays whenever the desire, regardless of crunch time frames.
